Okay, so
just like elements can have children,
like an example here where a div has
a paragraph inside it certain components.
But before a component can accept children
it needs to know where it should put them.
And for that we use the slot element,
inside our card.svelte we'll add a slot,
okay so
I can now put the things inside
the card component in app.svelte.
That was what we call a default slot.
So anything that goes directly inside
the card component goes into the default
slot element.
But sometimes you need more
control over placement and for
those cases we have
something called name slots.
Inside the card.svelte
component we've got sorry
inside here,
we've got a span slot = telephone and
a span slot = company and
a span slot = address.
We need to create corresponding slots for
all of that content inside card.svelte.
At the top we'll add this header element.
Got one for the telephone,
one for the company.
And then below the default
slot we'll add a footer.
With a slot for the address.
Now this card is pretty
close to what we want but
we have in the top right the name of the
company has a small element inside it and
the small element is
expressed in app.svelte here.
And because that's where
the element lives,
that's where the styles also need to go.
Are the contents of the card
component inherit styles that
are declared in the style tag
of card.svelte, but ultimately,
the styles belong to the component
where the elements live.
So if you wanna add some styles for
that small element,
we're gonna need to do it in
the style tag of app.svelte.
We wanna add a display = block so
that it falls onto its own line.
Then we need to give it
a smaller font size and
wanna align it to the right.
Like so.
Alternatively, we could have
used the global modifier and
put the styles inside
the card.svelte to target all small
elements inside the inside
the div with the .card class.
It really depends on who you want
to be in control of that styling.
Now we have two of these cards,
in one of them we have some content.
And then in the other one we haven't yet
specified any content and
a component can specify fallbacks for
any slots that are left empty by just
putting it inside the slot element so
over in card.svelte inside
the slot we can add.
Some fallback content reminding you to
put the telephone number on the card.
If we make that a little bit bigger,
you can see it there in the top left.
And we'll do the same thing for
the company name.
Do it for the default slot.
And finally, for the address
And then, of course, in app.svelte if
we start filling these details out,
it will use the values that are passed
in instead of the fallback.
Right, they don't have any question
about the component composition API's.
Okay, so in some situations you will
need to pass data from a component
back into the parent that is
passing in the slotted content,
which is a little bit of a head
scratcher until you see it in action.
So here we have a component
called FilterableList,
which given some data,
allows us to filter the contents
of that data based on
the field that we've provided.
So here we have a whole bunch of
CSS named colors, this is every,
I believe CSS named color with
its corresponding hex value.
And we wanna be able to filter
this list like find all of
the orange colors for
example, which almost works.
There are three orange colors, but
they're not being rendered correctly.
And that's because we're
not passing data from
the FilterableList back in to the app.
First thing we need to do is
pass the data into the slot.
So inside our FilterableList we're
gonna pass the item into there,
just like any component prop.
And then on the other
side of the equation,
where it's being used in app.svelte,
we need to add something called
the let binding, let:item = row.
And what you'll find now is that all
of the data is being rendered inside
the FilterableList.
And if I take the word orange,
we'll see that there are in
fact three orange colors,
DarkOrange, Orange, and OrangeRed.
And finally up here,
we began by using Alice Blue for
everything which is the first
row in that array of data,
we can now get rid of that because
it's not being referenced anywhere.
So you can do the same thing with named
slots, you put the binding on the element
with the slot attribute as opposed
to on the component itself.
And this allows you to compose
components in fairly complex ways.
Finally, in some cases, you might want to
vary the contents of the component based
on whether slotted content
has been provided.
So for example, in app.svelte, we have
this header which is providing this
banner at the top here if we get rid of
that, then it will no longer render, but
we're left with this ugly double border
effect because inside FilterableList,
we're rendering div class =
header regardless of whether or
not it was provided.
And we can fix that using
the special $$slots variable,
which is available to components.
If the header slot was provided,
then that will be true,
if not, then it is not true and
we've got rid of that double border.